Okay, so I've added just a little bit more
markup to my pages,
in particular, I've added a link
to my contact page, when I click on it,
it goes to the contact page,
I go backwards and forwards.
And I can actually disable JavaScript
using the dev tools, to just test that that does work.
So when I go back and forth,
it really does render, the links work,
kind of wires up correctly.
Which is great for things like SEO,
and proving the server-side renderings is working,
but in our case, we do actually
want to do a client-side render,
and when I click on get in touch,
I want to do a local history,
push state, and so on.
So, Next provides a few,
like a handful of components
that you can use within your projects,
and one of them is the link component.
So I'm going to do import,
link from Next at link,
and then here, I'm just gonna wrap
my anchor in the link element,
or link component rather, to use the right words.
It's saved,
and oh, got an error here, what do we have.
Href is marked.
Okay, so the thing that's it's complaining about,
is that the href needs to be on the link element
and not on the anchor,
so I'm just gonna move that up.
Okay, hit save again,
and this will reload.
Good, no errors.
If I click on get in touch,
and we're navigating directly inside of the browser,
we can see that, by me clearing my devtools.
If I go back, click, okay.
So there was no request.
The on demand entries, that's the Next
kind of hot module reloading,
and I can hide that
by doing kind of a negative filter.
And there is no request going on there
because that has already cached locally.
If I hit refresh here, okay,
and click on get in touch,
you can see it's only requesting
the JavaScript file to do the contacts page,
which is where our cosplitting comes into play.
So you can see cosplitting already taking effect.
And in addition, we can do prefetch,
now we won't see this working in development,
but prefetch says when Next takes its markup
and it sees this prefetch attribute,
it will go ahead and do
a request for that contact page,
so that it's already warm,
when I click on it, it'll be kind of
warm in the browser, and it'll be
an instant bit of navigation, so.
It still makes use of the cosplitting,
but it does it,
it basically just requests it,
once the page is down,
and it just means that navigating
feels really really responsive.
Now, you might notice
I've left the A tag inside there,
if I get rid of this,
it's actually deprecated.
Or it's marked as not supported anymore.
So it still does work,
but what Next wants you to do
is actually wrap it in an A tag,
so you see this down here is an error.
Now, I can do
naughty things like this,
where the
clickable bit, the link,
isn't actually a link,
and it does work.
But don't do that, because, you know,
any crawler that comes to the website,
it can't follow an em tag,
over to the contact page.
And, you know, you'll get any
of the automatic accessibility of the browser,
or anything like that.
So even though you can put different types
of elements inside of here,
don't put, you know, non clickable elements.
But you can put a button in here,
for instance.
Okay, and that
I think that would work,
but what makes more sense
is adding kind of an on click.
I'm slightly getting ahead of myself,
but that is how links work,
and again, pretty simple,
automatically takes advantage
of Next cosplitting, prerendering,
and you'll only see prefetch working
when you do your production build,
and you release to production,
but otherwise, that is how it works.
And we will look at
like nice URLs shortly,
which we use the link element
to kind of hide the URL it's using to navigate,
and we can pass query strings and so on.
So we'll see that in an upcoming video.